Examples
========

.. note::

   Please consult the detailed usage in the help of each command
   (use ``-h`` or ``--help`` argument to display the manual).

Listing currently running sessions
----------------------------------

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai ps

This command is actually an alias of the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai admin sessions


Running simple sessions
-----------------------

The following command spawns a Python session and executes
the code passed as ``-c`` argument immediately.
``--rm`` option states that the client automatically terminates
the session after execution finishes.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai run --rm -c 'print("hello world")' python:3.6-ubuntu18.04

.. note::

   By default, you need to specify language with full version tag like
   ``python:3.6-ubuntu18.04``. Depending on the Backend.AI admin's language
   alias settings, this can be shortened just as ``python``. If you want
   to know defined language aliases, contact the admin of Backend.AI server.


The following command spawns a Python session and executes
the code passed as ``./myscript.py`` file, using the shell command
specified in the ``--exec`` option.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai run --rm --exec 'python myscript.py arg1 arg2' \
             python:3.6-ubuntu18.04 ./myscript.py


Running sessions with accelerators
----------------------------------

The following command spawns a Python TensorFlow session using a half
of virtual GPU device and executes ``./mygpucode.py`` file inside it.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai run --rm -r gpu=0.5 \
             python-tensorflow:1.12-py36 ./mygpucode.py


Terminating running sessions
----------------------------

Without ``--rm`` option, your session remains alive for a configured
amount of idle timeout (default is 30 minutes).
You can see such sessions using the ``backend.ai ps`` command.
Use the following command to manually terminate them via their session
IDs.  You may specifcy multiple session IDs to terminate them at once.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai rm <sessionID>


Starting a session and connecting to its Jupyter Notebook
---------------------------------------------------------

The following command first spawns a Python session named "mysession"
without running any code immediately, and then executes a local proxy which connects
to the "jupyter" service running inside the session via the local TCP port 9900.
The ``start`` command shows application services provided by the created compute
session so that you can choose one in the subsequent ``app`` command.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai start -t mysession python
  backend.ai app -p 9900 mysession jupyter

Once executed, the ``app`` command waits for the user to open the displayed
address using appropriate application.
For the jupyter service, use your favorite web browser just like the
way you use Jupyter Notebooks.
To stop the ``app`` command, press ``Ctrl+C`` or send the ``SIGINT`` signal.


Running sessions with vfolders
------------------------------

The following command creates a virtual folder named "mydata1", and then
uploads ``./bigdata.csv`` file into it.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai vfolder create mydata1
  backend.ai vfolder upload mydata1 ./bigdata.csv

The following command spawns a Python session where the virtual folder "mydata1"
is mounted.  The execution options are omitted in this example.
Then, it downloads ``./bigresult.txt`` file (generated by your code) from the
"mydata1" virtual folder.

.. code-block:: shell

  backend.ai run --rm -m mydata1 python:3.6-ubuntu18.04 ...
  backend.ai vfolder download mydata1 ./bigresult.txt

In your code, you may access the virtual folder via ``/home/work/mydata1``
(where the default current working directory is ``/home/work``) just like
a normal directory.


Running parallel experiment sessions
------------------------------------

(TODO)
